OK.
Welcome back.
So I've added a few lines here so I do believe that about it from here onwards down to the bottom and
I will explain each and every one of them and in the bone and ts a few lines have been added here so
from here on we're so from here to here this belongs to the app component.
And then we have the interface user.
All of this will be explained immediately.
So I think I show make tutorials like this from now on will see the code and then I'll explain it line
by line as opposed to typing.
Please feel free to give me a feedback whether you prefer this or the other method of me actually typing
the code as I explain it.
But I think like this I'll make fewer errors as it is quite difficult to actually type and explain at
the same time.
So the class up component has been explained previously and here we see the properties of this app component.
So first of all this is this here is private so you have a this is a user name a variable of type string
so its name is user name and the type is string and value of this string is text.
I don't know this is something stupid that I'm doing here.
I'm creating a user name and password.
Obviously it wouldn't go this way.
I will show you later on more advanced things.
But for now we're going to do very basic things and then we're going to move on to making a real world
application.
But first I want you to master the basics so that's why I'm doing these stupid examples so that you
can learn through them anyway.
So we have a private a private variable here as of who is in the name of the variable his user name
the type as string and it's private private meaning that it cannot be accessed outside of this class.
And then we have other private one.
It says Current User and this one is of type user.
Now variable current user of custom type user that we will define down below.
Actually it is defined down below I'll explain that shortly.
But this variable basically will contain objects with properties so properties will be our user name
and email and this must match the interface Shima scheme down below.
So you have username and email this user name is of type string and email is of type string.
So the properties must match.
Otherwise it will not work.
And it absolutely has to have two of them as they are here.
It cannot have one or the other it has to have two as they are defined down below and they both have
to be string.
So as you can see user name is.
And email is their status at test dot com.
So they absolutely have to be placed in a way that they have been defined in the interface down below.
Basically he lets just go ahead and explain the interface and then I'll explain the method here.
So interfaces are basically similar to classes and they only define types which means we only list properties
there types and prototyped functions here.
Well for when I say function or method it's the same thing basically you call a function a method when
you put a function in a class.
So when you put a function into a class then it's a method but basically it's the same thing.
Don't worry about that.
So as I said interfaces are similar to classes except we only define types.
We do not assign any values to them.
We give a name and then we give a type we give a name and then we give a type.
So this is of type String.
We cannot assign any values to it here and we can also prove type methods within interfaces as well.
So our interface is user and current user will be of type user which is defined here.
But it is not yet the values are yet to be initialized so to say.
So here we actually put them and we initialize them to whatever we want.
As long as it's a string because it says user name string of type string and user name has to be a string
here.
It absolutely has to and email string and email has to be a string here as well.
That is a must have.
OK.
So this method here.
So this is a method that does not take any parameters so as you can see the space between parentheses
is empty.
So it does not take any parameters and its return type is string.
So it absolutely it will return a string in fact it has to return a string.
Since we've stated that the return type is string.
This keyword keyword.
This marks the current instance of the class current user.
Here means that we are accessing current user property so current user here current user here.
And we are pooling from it user name property so we're pooling this.
So from this from the current from the current instance of this we are pooling this.
This is what this line here represents so I have my mouth full of the word this here.
But anyway this is just this is just this is just referring to the current instance of the class.
If you have minimal to no understanding in regard to classes of who you can look up classes in any programming
language the concept is fairly similar but you do not need to understand these complexities just yet
as we move one slowly through this course a lot of these things will be explained as well.
But for the time being this is all you need to know.
So this will basically this entire line is here to pool the username.
Actually it will just print out tests.
Actually the return value will be a string test which is the initialised value of username.
Now how do we present this.
Now we've written all of this how is this presented to a user when they load up a web page.
Well that is why we have a template so app component dot a DML.
We can go here and as you can see a low amount of lines have been added here.
So you have the first line where we're doing something strange here.
And then we're moving onwards doing a lot more of these strange things.
If I just this.
This is actually running as you can see the NPM start has been called and this server is this development
server is running.
So if I just open up a Firefox and a local host Colin 3000 This is the result of this along with this.
So what is it.
What is it that we are doing here what is what is going on.
So you have these things written out anyway.
So the first let's go ahead and take a look at that.
So these are paragraph tags.
Usually some sort of well you can put pretty much whatever you want into a paragraph but I've placed
hello and comma and then I've used this.
This is called interpellation.
Whenever you use these double curly brackets or a single curly brackets with percentage sign or something
like that this is called interpellation basically what's going on is that we are getting the username.
In this case so this this thing inside the inside the curly braces.
In this case is a property from a Class AB component.
So you have the you have it.
It's.
Yeah.
So this is a you have app component class and then you have a user name property here.
And if you go back to the DML username is a property of a class A app component.
Since this file is the template from this from this component together they make one call so we can
actually access private things from from this class we can access all the private things from this class
without any problems.
Now why why why how.
How is this how is app component.
HD a model a template for this.
Well simple enough it's an app.
At component and it's a template you RL And we have specified the path to our template which will correspond
which will correspond to this class and pretty much anything that is in here and therefore that makes
up one whole and therefore you can access private private properties and private methods and whatever
is private within that class without any problems.
Otherwise you wouldn't be able to access them at all as they are invisible outside of that class to
anything that's not one whole with that class so to say.
So let's go ahead and take a look at the Web site and see what this prints out.
It says hello.
Test OK so says here.
Hello Colma user name the user name is test and then I placed an exclamation mark at the end for God
knows what reason so.
Hello test.
And the exclamation mark is also printed out on the screen.
Next up we have.
Well this is the hether So just why is this here.
Didn't freshet or didn't Claudette's or something like that.
Let me just go ahead and delete this because this is not relevant at this point in time.
And just save this as it is a C it's immediately loading once I've actually saved that.
So now it has been reloaded.
That was actually an old layout but it doesn't matter it's only the lines below are different so it's
a halo test and this just an ordinary HDMI paragraph except for this is just being printed out onto
the screen.
If I just go ahead and me go ahead then resized this.
Give me a second here.
I do not wish to resize it in that fashion.
I wish to
do this so that you can so that you can monitor in parallel what is going on on the site and what is
actually.
Oh come on friend work with me here work with me so that you can actually monitor what is going on ADHD
M-L code and what is going on on the site as well.
So we went over this one.
Now down below I just wanted to show you that you can use multiple that you can access multiple properties
from a class without any problems as well as your current user data username.
This will pool the user name out of current users so it will pool test and the other one will pool the
e-mail.
So this would that you say current user and then you go into email and then you pull the e-mail out
of it.
And what we get here.
So this is not a minus sign.
This is just the dash.
And so we're not actually subtracting anything from anything else just says Hello test and then dash
test that test dot com.
So the e-mail address down below it's pretty much the same thing here except this is just a different
way of writing the same thing.
So two different ways of writing exactly the same thing that your current user name.
And then we cooked and ate this string and we concoct and ate this string and then we put it all in
one string and then we printed out.
But the way of accessing properties for my class remains exactly the same.
And the final the not the final but the this one is just the demo that you can also not only access
properties but you can also call methods here and what will be written here instead of the method will
be the return value of that particular method.
So if we go into the app component you can see that the return value here is a string which is basically
just a the value of the user name property as you can see it just says hello and then it calls a method.
And basically what happens is just says Hello test.
Is the return value of the method get username and down below we have made a small input field whose
initial value.
So this is the initial value of the input field will be get will be the return value of the get the
method and the return value of the Get username method is just basically just the user name that we've
typed in which is test.
So we we will populate this field by default with the with the return value of the Get username method.
What sort of B what will we be typing into this input field.
Well the type will be text.
So no big no big deal here.
Once again these curly brackets are called interpellation if you wish to learn more about it that is
the term that you should look up on the net so that you can read more about it anyway.
Peter fairwell here and hope to see you in the follow up to Tauriel.